---
layout: post
title:  "Row, row, row your boat, gently down the stream."
date:   2015-10-25
---

Today, again 3 items. The first, as you might have guessed by the title: rowing. Further on are some of my options after Cambridge and another, rather odd, experience I had this week regarding books.

## Row row row your boat
Quite a big thing in Cambridge - it's probably the #1 sport amongst students, every college has a boat club (I believe, which would bring the total number of boat clubs over 30). It started out last week with some sessions during the day for people to get a feel of what they were getting themselves into. The first step is a 2-person boat (called a tub), which does not go quite as fast but you can get some basic technique down. After, you move on to VIIIs (for those incapable of reading roman numerals, that means a boat seating 8 people). Being quite long and narrow, these tend to be somewhat unstable, especially for novices due to our lack of timing and synchronisation. We started out with 4 people rowing at the same time, whilst the others would 'set the boat', blades (oars) flat on the water to hold everything somewhat stable. Enter this week. Merely planning 'outings' during the day wasn't sufficient any more - 7:00 to 8:45, that's the time. So far we've had 1 morning outing, but two more are planned for next week. And it isn't nearly as horrible as it might sound to some. Lectures start at 9:00 and by that time you've already spent 1+ hour being really quite active. It's a great way to wake up, however, after the first morning outing I went to bed at 21:00 as being active from 6:30 is pretty exhausting, especially when you're not used to waking up that early yet.

Based on 'expressed levels of keenness' the novice rowers got split up into teams of 8. Apparently I was considered 'keen', and now we're moving up to 4 outings (of which 2 are the morning and the other two are in the week-end) and 1 'erg' (rowing machine) session (in the evening) for next week. Even though 5 sounds like a lot, the morning outings use time you'd normally spend sleeping for something useful(?) and nobody actually spends the entire week-end studying (at least not during term), so you might as well go row. Furthermore, the Sunday outings so far have been very well-timed. They serve brunch in the college hall until 13:30 so often people just go there straight after an outing. So even though it can be rather intense it is also a whole lot of fun and I'm looking forward to next week.

## What to do next?
This is going to be an enumeration of the options suggested to me by various people

1. PhD: The very first lecture I had (the introduction of the course) ended with the notion 'Please sign up for a PhD'. And that was before any of the courses actually started. They like their MPhil students and they like to keep them around for a bit longer, but you would still have to go through the normal application process, due to the nature of the funding system over here. Getting a PhD position is easy. Getting funding is a bit harder (in contrary to Holland you are not employed by the university) and requires the usual range of reference letters, research proposals and filled-in forms, submitted to the university which in turn get used to attempt to secure funding from relevant pools. The thing is, the application deadlines for those funding competitions are in the beginning of December, which means that you'd have to collect reference letters now, even though the research hasn't started yet and you barely know your supervisors. Their suggestion - ask the people who wrote you the reference letters for the MPhil very nicely and whether they'd be willing to write approximately the same thing again. Next issue - do I actually want to spend a further 3 years over here, mainly working on a specific topic. During the initial lecture that answer would have been a resounding 'No', but I'm inching more and more towards 'yes'. This place is pretty amazing.
2. A plethora of internships (which would result in getting a job). Tech companies of various sizes come by the Computer Laboratory or the Career Services Office quite often to give talks about a topic they're currently dealing with. So far, every single one of those talks has ended in some PR person (often with a strong US accent) informing the audience about the possibilities of internships with application tips and deadlines. A grasp of the companies featured so far includes Google, Facebook and Morgan Stanley. But again, application deadlines are looming and (referring to point 1), I don't know whether I want to leave this place yet.
3. EF (Entrepreneur First). Programme for setting up companies, based in London - highly selective and apparently their largest influx of participants are Oxbridge graduates.
4. Punting tours on the Cam. Not very serious. On one of our punting tours someone suggested I should do so.

Short version: I don't know yet, but before I arrived here option 2 and 3 were in joint first place. However, option 1 is slowly making its way up, but deadlines are approaching and I should make a decision in the following weeks.

## Books
Cambridge appears to live and thrive on books. Having over 100 libraries (according to the librarian of our college) - the university library (UL) is the largest of them all. Being a copyright library, it is legally obliged to house every single book published in the UK. Which is a lot. It houses close to 10 million works, ranging from throwaway novels to rare manuscripts. However, a very significant fraction of those books is not actually available on the shelves, where you can go find it yourself. Instead, you have to fill in a little paper form (title, author, identification code, etc.) and deposit that in a box. Every once in a while, a library employee will actually take all of the submitted forms and collect all the books from the parts of the library which are inaccessible to the general public. Then, after an hour or so you can come and collect your ordered book. The reason for not housing all the books on the shelves is straightforward. There is simply not enough space in the library. Even though the shelves in the accessible parts of the library are already packed quite densely, it is not enough. Having students move the large archiving cases (the ones with a wheel on the side, which you can rotate to move them slightly and place them right next to each other) would be less efficient.

This will be all for this time. The next log will probably be covering the experience of rowing 5 times a week.  
