---
layout: post
title:  "F*ck Quartus"
date:   2015-06-04 21:59:35
category: Rants
---

### Rants on the idiosyncrasies of Altera's Quartus.
Let's hope that there will be some progress on the usablity of the software with Intel taking over control :)

* In QSsys: Signals must have an unique name when exported. Firstly: why the heck did it compile without errors and do you only notify me of this 'problem' when I reopen my QSys project? Secondly: how about you let me rename the signals instead of messing up my entire QSys component?
* Some more on QSys: By default, you use a few seconds to initialize my previous project. THEN WHY DO YOU STILL HAVE TO LOAD IT WHEN I INDICATE THAT I WANT TO OPEN IT??
* Syntax errors in your project:
  * Please stop the compilation immediately after you've found them.
  * Why does it take almost 20 seconds to check a few source files for syntax errors? You ain't telling me that GCC can parse and check C++ easily without any noticable delay whereas the ancient language of VHDL takes 20 seconds to get checked for errors.
* Compilation speed. 
  * I get that FPGAs are more complicated to program than CPUs. However, as there is almost no competition on compilation speed I'm almost sure that there are many possible optimizations making the wait a bit more bearable. 
  * You need to buy a an additional licence for faster compilation (with multiple cores). Oligopolistic competition anyone? Especially when quad core machines are far more common than single core machines nowadays?
  * Really?  Quartus is capable of compiling whilst I am playing a video game and streaming videos. Not a single stutter whatsoever. Maybe the VHDL compiler should start trying harder :D 
